


results of simple patient (no antibiotics)

The bacteria population growth appears to follow a logistic curve. The population briefly grew rapidly (exponentially)
initially, but quickly began to grow at a decreasing rate. This growth pattern likely occurs since the reproduction
probability decreases as the population density increases. This simulation used a birth rate of 10% and a death rate of
2.5% with a birth probability of 10% and a death rate of 2.5%. Note that the birth and reproduction probabilities are
distinct.


Results of treated patient in Simulation A

This simulation included a period in which a patient was treated with antibiotics and bacteria that could develop
resistances to said antibiotics. The graph plots the total and resistant population throughout the simulation. The
bacteria population was allowed to grow without treatment for the first 40% of the simulation (150 time steps) after
which the antibiotic was introduced. Initially both the total and resistant populations increased at similar rates, with
the total population being much larger. Both populations increased at a slightly decreasing rate. Prior to the
introduction of the antibiotic, the resistant population quickly peaked and began to decrease. The total population
increased until the antibiotic was introduced.

After introduction of the antibiotic, the total population quickly converged to the resistant population (simulation
specs indicated that non-resistant bacteria could not survive) and matched it after. Both populations began to increase
slowly again, following a growth pattern similar to the late stage behavior of the simulation without antibiotics.

The population stabilized slightly below the initial peak of the resistant bacteria. The exact results are likely to due
to the relative values of the birth, death, and mutation probabilities which were 30%, 20%, and 80% in this simulation.
The net difference in birth and death rate explains the general increase and the high mutation rate explains the growth
in population even after introduction of the antibiotic. However, despite a very high mutation rate the bacteria
population appears asymptotic around ~20% of the maximum population.




Results of treated patient in Simulation B

Simulation B had the same design as simulation A with an antibiotic introduced ~40% of the way into the trial. However,
the parameters were altered with a birth probability lowered to 17%, while the death and mutation probabilities remained
at 20% and 80% respectively. Despite having a smaller birth rate than death rate, the populations grew initially;
however, the scale is misleading. The total population peaks at less than 20% of the max population, which is well below
the peak of simulation A. The initial increase was likely due to the high probability of reproduction when the
population density was low at the beginning of the simulation. However, both the total and resistant population began to
decline well before the antibiotic was introduced and the introduction of the antibiotic quickly drove both populations
to 0.


Confidence Interval Results

The results indicate the 95% confidence interval for the mean population of bacteria in at time 299 for each simulation.

Simulation A
95% CI for total population at t = 299: (183.53,204.11)
95% CI for resistant population at t = 299: (183.53,204.11)


# Simulation B
95% CI for total population at t = 299: (0.0,0.0)
95% CI for resistant population at t = 299: (0.0,0.0)
